Process Capability
================================ 
In managing variables the usual aim is not to achieve exactly the same 
diameter for every piston, the same weight for every tablet, sales figures 
exactly as forecast, etc but to reduce the variation of products and 
process parameters around a target value. 
 
No adjustment of a process is called for as long as there has been no 
identified change in its accuracy or precision. This means that, in 
controlling a process, it is necessary to establish first that it is in 
statistical control, and then to compare it’s centering and spread with the 
specified target value and specification tolerance. 
 
We have seen previously that, if a process is not in statistical control, 
special causes of variation may be identified with the aid of control charts. 
 
Only when all the special causes have been accounted for, or 
eliminated, can process capability be sensibly assessed. The variation due 
to common causes may then be examined and the ‘natural specification’ 
compared with any imposed specification or tolerance zone. 
 
The relationship between process variability and tolerances may be 
formalized by consideration of the standard deviation, σ, of the process. 

<hr>
### Process capability indices 
 
A process capability index is a measure relating the actual performance of 
a process to its specified performance, where processes are considered to 
be a combination of the plant or equipment, the method itself, the people, 
the materials and the environment. 
 
The absolute minimum requirement is that three process standard 
deviations each side of the process mean are contained within the 
specification limits. This means that ca 99.7 per cent of output will be 
within the tolerances. A more stringent requirement is often stipulated to 
ensure that produce of the correct quality is consistently obtained over 
the long term. 
 
When a process is under statistical control (i.e. only random or common 
causes of variation are present), a process capability index may be 
calculated. Process capability indices are simply a means of indicating the 
variability of a process relative to the product specification tolerance. 
